These are in excellent condition, I have to say.
U.S.
Naval Academy.
So you were a collector?
Did you realize at this point that you were a collector?
No.
So we found ourselves buying WPAs because we were using them.
I'm going to just put this over.
Just not even thinking about it, okay?
Okay.
Well, in business, I have always traveled.
I would find myself in Bluefield, West Virginia, running a couponing test, or Mason City, Iowa, setting up displays for a new product.
So what do you do in the evening?
The hotels then were, you know, I can picture them, concrete block buildings two stories high.
The room had an iron bed, a big black hissing radiator, a bureau with a big mirror, and if you had a bath, the toilet was running, and the tub with cloth feet was
It was stained from drippings from the faucet.
So you didn't want to, and there would be a light bulb, a bare light bulb on a cord over the bed.
So you didn't want to stay, there was no reason to stay in the room in the evening, so you'd go out.
So those days I didn't drink.
So the only two kinds of businesses that are open in the evening, and every small town had them.
First of all, there was a bar.
And then there was a bookstore, a used bookstore.
So I would go to the used bookstore.
Why do you think of that?
Why were used bookstores so popular in the Midwest, do you think?
Well, in the whole country.
It wasn't just the Midwest.
All over the country there were used bookstores.
They've gone now because rents have gone up and they can't afford them.
I love used bookstores.
So I suppose at one point I'd been in 90 percent of the used bookstores in the country.
And most of them are gone.
So I'd spend the evening there.
Every book dealer is interesting.
They're erudite.
They're interesting people.
You'd talk with them.
You'd chat.
You'd look around.
And sort of in thanks, at the end of the evening, I'd buy a book for a buck or 75 cents or a dollar and a quarter.
Now, you weren't necessarily going to these places to buy books.
No, it was wasting time.
It was amusement, basically.
And all my business career, I went from P&G to Standard Brands, where I marketed Jason's Amborn coffee and Tenderleaf tea.
And then I went to Borden, where I spent most of my business career.
I was there over 30 years.
In advertising, marketing?
Yeah, marketing.
When I retired, I was vice president of corporate development.
I did Borden's planning and acquisition work at what companies like Wise Potato Chips and Real Lemon and Sacramento Tomato Juice and Snow's Clams.
These are all my favorite practice.
Yeah.
But I traveled, and I still travel.
I remember one day I was, I got thinking, people talk about first editions.
I knew absolutely nothing about first editions.
So I, I decided I'd like to learn, so I picked an author.
This is about when, sir?
Oh, in the early 40s.
So it's still, it's only been a couple of years.
Yeah, so I picked an author that nobody collected, Frank Stock.
A lot of books, perhaps 50, and they were juveniles, so it was hard to get them in good condition.
Why did you pick them?
Well, because nobody collected them, and they were cheap, because nobody collected them.
But you liked them as an author?
I couldn't afford them.
I was making a job when we got married.
I was making $150 a month.
So how much money do you have for books?
Books didn't cost very much, but even so, you know, every quarter was important.
So I started collecting first editions of Frank Stockton, and they're on the top two shelves over there.
You still have them?
For 50 years I've been collecting Frank Stockton, and I still have one item to go.
Really?
Yeah.
What is it?
I'll look for it.
Well, it's a pamphlet called Northern Voice.
toward the dissolution of the union.
And it doesn't even have his name on it.
It's listed in Ransom.
So then, in business, I did a lot of, of course, advertising, but public relations and publicity work.
I was building a powdered milk business, and nobody
was interested in powder milk, and they knew nothing about it, so it was a problem of getting to educators, you see, and food editors.
So I met a food editor of the, I guess, New York Times.
Her name was Edith Asbury.
I found out that she was married to an author by the name of Herbert Asbury.
A-S-B-U-R-Y.
And he wrote about interesting subjects.
So I started collecting his books, and nobody collects Herbert Asbury at all today.
And they were hard to find.
I ended up with maybe 20 books by Herbert Asbury, and one day Edith said to me, gee, you know, Herbert would love to, you know, if you'd like, he'd sign them for you.
So, okay, so he came up to the office, and I had so many of these things, I was embarrassed.
He was coming up to sign one book, so I put them under my desk.
He wasn't embarrassing, but he loved it.
I would pull them out one at a time.
And here they are.
These are all.
She wrote about Carrie Nation.
C-A-R-R-Y-N-A-T-H-A-Y.
She's the one with the hatchet.
She'd go around and break up the barge, you know.
1954.
For Fred Bord, I suppose the moral of this book is that women should be very careful when they reach middle age.
Carrie Nation went off a rocker because of a drunken person, an insane daughter, and a menopause.
Now, that's a great instruction agency when it's needed.
It's March 30th, 54th.
And he wrote... These are nice-looking books.
These are Alfred Knopf.
He wrote one detective story.
This is almost impossible to find.
He wrote largely, I gather, non-fiction books.
Is that correct?
Yeah.
Gangs of New York.
The Gangs of New York.
Up from Methodism.
That's about Chicago.
The Barbary Coast.
This one is interesting.
This is called The Devil of Peeling.
It's E-I-L-I-N-G.
E-E-I-L-I-N-G.
If you're a good goblin-ridden Christian, you've got to leave all this stuff.
I wrote this book in three weeks on a bet with Carl Van Doren.
Carl Van Doren.
Who said I couldn't do a good horror mystery in that time.
He always insisted he won the bet.
Now, these are all inscribed on that one day, March 30th, 1954.
That's a cute story.
I like that.
How many did he do?
Did he do 20?
He did them all.
Oh, that's a wonderful story.
I'll bet he was flattered.
He was running out of juice when he did this one.
Can I just hold on?
I want to just read what it says.
This is a cute little story here, by the way.
I like this.
The title of this is Ye Olde, OLDE, Fire Ladies, to Fred Boyd.
Latties.
I'm sorry.
L-A-D-D-I-S.
That is just to Fred Boyd with all the best.
Yeah.
Again, March 30th, 54th.
All right.
So there I was collecting.
How many titles would you say?
Well, I would say, let's see, one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine.
About 20.
15 or 20, yes.
And is that basically the oeuvre?
Is that what he wrote, or is there more than that?
Yeah, unless they won't know, that's it.
These doctors are serious.
They must have been thrilled to have a serious collector.
These are all in good condition, and that's one of the challenges with collecting books, condition.
Those are wonderful books.
Condition and condition.
And again, you say it's about 40 titles.
No.
Then I started collecting Lafcari O'Hearn, who lived in Cincinnati and wrote for a paper there, and then he moved to New Orleans, and then he moved to Japan.
And Lafcari O'Hearn popularized Japan in this country.
Mays, do you want to go in another room?
These four shows are first editions of Lafcari O'Hearn.
Should we leave you right below for a while?
You want to go on the other phone?
No, I mean, you wouldn't have to leave her alone.
I'd better go, yeah.
I'm just saying that maybe she'd like some privacy here, so.
I'd better go.
This is what you wanted here.
Then we're talking about Lafcadio Hearn, I think.
So I collected Lafcadio Hearn, and there are four shelves of them over there.
I'm just going to put this next to you over here.
And so I guess gradually, he's very hot now.
Lafcadio Hearn has really taken off.
Did you know that?
No.
At a few sales, I've been to all the major sales in New York.
His prices are pretty crazy.
Well, there are some fine... The Japanese are buying him a great guest, though.
Yeah, but he popularized Japan.
But some of these locatio iron items are pretty good.
This is probably one of the hardest to find.
Oh, that's wonderful.
Look at the condition of that.
That's...
La Cuisine, Cousins, C-O-U-S-I-N-A, Creole.
I got that from Ellen Shaker, who now is a... Oh, I read this author out in California.
She's in my book.
She wrote, she sold this to me when she was at Dawson's.
When she was at Dawson's.
Yeah, I paid $100.
She started in Philadelphia and then went out to Dawson's?
No, no, she started at Dawson's and then went to...
Is that our book room in Philadelphia?
And then she went to the Sylvia.
Yeah, the Norman.
Norman Strauss.
But there are a lot of the— You must know Mr. Strauss.
He was a— Yeah, he was the chairman of the— That's right, because the advertisement.
Was it J. Walter Thompson there?
Right.
I think it was J. Walter.
Exactly.
But there are some good friends there.
I don't think I should take that paper off.
It's always been honest.
I think you should leave it on after all these years.
Briefly, what did Asbury think of the fact that you were such an assiduous collector of his books?
Well, I don't know.
I was sort of surprised.
This is a Chinese ghost.
That's one of his noted things.
You know, here's Carnegie Bookstore, 59th Street in New York.
1951, but his books came out.
You know, I interviewed Dave Kirschenbaum, who was part of Carnegie Books.
He's 97 years old, and he still goes to the auctions.
Dave's in my book.
His daughters are running a business, I guess.
He's there five days a week.
Yeah.
So gradually, I guess, I was becoming a
Book collector.
But did you know it at this point?
You must have known it at this point.
Well, I don't know.
The reason the question is asked is when do you know that you're a collector?
You have to know that you're a collector.
You're not buying these books to read them, obviously, right?
I mean, you hadn't been buying them.
No, I don't buy books to read them.
People say... I mean, at this point, you're certainly buying these because you want them as artifacts, I guess.
People say, do you read all these books?
No, I don't read them.
I don't read any of them, really.
It's the chase that I enjoy.
It's a challenge.
And I guess that's what I was doing at business.
I was buying companies.
I was chasing them.
It's quite a challenge to find a company.
It took five years to buy the Cracker Jack Company.
And it's taken me 50 years to complete Frank Stockton, and I haven't completed Frank Stockton yet.
That's a great quote.
I love that quote.
And this, again, is for, now, you mentioned three companies.
You spent most of your business career with Ford.
Ford, yeah.
Okay.
So, of course, then, you know, you pick up miscellaneous stuff that interests you, and you can see that.
I found, I got interested in a private press called Mosier, done in Portland, Maine.
It's M-O-S-H-E-R.
M-O-S-H-E-R.
There they are.
Yeah, they're all over the place.
He said maybe 500 items I have all, but three or four.
How do you feel about the items that you don't have?
Very delicate.
Now, these were looking at the Ozark Country.
These are the, uh... It's just this series, you know.
It amounts to nothing, really.
425 copies of this book that printed on Japan's Ellen.
Yeah, these are fine press books.
Yeah.
Rather delicate little things.
1902, you see?
And, of course, the challenge there is to find them and also do it in good condition.
Thank you, sir.
Mr. Boyd, did you participate in this?
No.
Do you take pleasure in the ownership of these?
Well, how do you keep track of what you have?
I deal with file cords.
There's cabinets over there.
eight drawers of file cards, and every one of them is full.
When I read a dealer's catalog and I see something I have, I clip it, and I mark it and date it, and then Jane pastes it on the back of that file card.
So I keep track of where things are valued, you see.
And I get it in case something happens to me where Jane would have some clue as to what
I didn't do it for my ... I know, but she doesn't.
And so I thought, well, if we cook catalogs, she would have some idea of what they're worth.
So ... I said to my wife, I don't care if you sell them, just get what they're worth.
Yeah.
Incidentally, it's not ... You buy them a book at a time.
That's right.
And I'm surprised when somebody comes in and says, I'll give you $1.98 for the room full.
happened yeah well it isn't easy to sell books since then i'm finding because i'm starting to sell a few and uh duplicates yeah of which of which authors in particular oh really do you have all of wpa by the way were you able to oh no no i don't know how many there are impossible because i'll bet i probably have 500 different titles but uh
Oh, yeah.
Some of the WPA things were mini-aggressed.
And they would take 50 and give them to a school principal, where they'd be in his closet for six months, and then they'd be in the closet down the hall for six months, and then they'd be in the basement for five years, and somebody would say, let's get rid of them.
So I gradually found that I was collecting books.
And when we moved here, these were the ones...
that I had.
And moved here again, I think you said in 56.
In 57.
And it's sort of a mixture.
There's Frank Stockton, LaCudio Hearn, Herbert Asbury, some Moshe Press, some series.
There's the colophon over there.
I have all the colophons.
There's a river series.
And I bought the colophon in New York, down on 4th Avenue, which used to be the Book Street.
Most of the shops have gone from there now.
How many did you say you had?
Well, I'm not sure.
There are well over a hundred books on epitaph.
This is a crazy subject, but it's— How do you pick your subjects?
How did you pick your subjects?
Well, I don't know.
I just—I bought things that I liked, and then you sort of get involved, you know?
Did you have a feeling that you were—
setting the trend, I mean, you're kind of ahead of the, these are subject selections, I guess.
Well, I collect... I collect maybe 10 or 12 authors.
I collect maybe four or five presses, certain subjects.
Jane collects Arthur Rackham, I find them for her, an illustrator.
I collect another...
Another illustrator by the name of Bernhard Wohl, he etched books.
Every page is etched.
Isn't that wonderful?
How do you spell his name?
Bernhard, H-A-R-D-T, Wohl, W-A-L-L.
An American?
Yeah, he lived in, he did this in Rime Rock, Connecticut.
Oh, that's beautiful.
Yeah, this is not American.
It's supposed to be published yet.
Yeah, it's great.
Yeah, that's a nice book.
Yeah, that's great.
My wife and I collect Winslow Homer and Child Hassan.
We'll talk about that later.
I don't want to bore you with that, collecting that.
Then I collect certain subjects, like epitaphs.
And when we say epitaphs, what do you mean?
Books on epitaphs.
Both of them are humorous.
I see.
They look, by the look of the spine, they look like they're largely 19th century books.
Is that fair or something?
No, not completely.
I was in a store on 59th Street in New York years ago, and I found half a dozen books on epithets, and they had a book plate in them, W. G. Bowden, B-O-W-D-O-I-N, who I believe was the
At one point, it was a literary editor of the Brooklyn Eagles.
Apparently, he collected them.
He was gotten rid of them.
So I bought them, and that started me on epitaphs.
So I collected certain presses, Moser, Windsor Press, Allen Press.
A-L-L-E-N?
Yeah.
California.
I'm just saying it for the tape recorder.
There was one in there, Caroline Slade, Sylvia Gray.
at 103, at 109, reached for a fruit and broke her spine.
Wow.
You said about a dozen authors, so in addition to Stockton and Asbury and Hurin, who else did you collect?
Well, some British authors, Claude Houghton, Rhys Davies, Norman Douglas, Mary Webb,
Who else, Jane?
This is great.
I don't know any of them.
I mean, did you basically... Lafcadio Hearn.
Lafcadio Hearn, I know, of course.
And Stockton, I'm familiar with.
It's really hard to keep in mind what you do play.
You say it, you remember.
Now, this Mosier Press, this is a Mosier, too.
This is a big item, this is a big book, you know?
Here's the bibliography of Moser, one of them.
That's a beautiful book.
This is one of the nicest books I've ever seen, done by the Gahanna Press.
Well, Leonard Boskin is one of my subjects, I should point out.
There it is.
Thomas Bird, M-I-R-D, Moser, M-O-S-H-E-R, Portland, Maine.
It has inserts in his different series and...
There's a title page of another series.
This is gorgeous.
Leonard did this book.
This is wonderful.
It's a beautiful book.
He's having his 50th anniversary this year, you know, the Gehenna Press.
I have maybe three copies of this thing.
That's splendid, isn't it?
How many did he publish?
500, it says.
500, yeah, 135.
It's a thought-after book now.
I've paid...
$28 for it in 1967.
Wow.
Do you do most of your acquisitions through dealers, or do you kind of go out?
You talk about the hunt and the chase.
Well, I used to go to stores, but stores have gone.
You know, Carnegie is still there.
Not Carnegie is gone.
Well, Carnegie's just a little office.
What was he?
He was Carnegie.
No, he was Argosy.
Oh, Argosy is still there.
Yeah, Argosy is still there.
Carnegie is gone.
The Strand is fun.
Do you ever go down to the Strand?
Oh, Dober and Pine, yeah.
That's because it's different.
I went there, but I found out that they assign a security guard to you when you're in there.
They follow you around.
It bothers me.
I don't want somebody standing watching me.
I don't go there anymore.
But then I found I was buying things like this in two volumes.
This has got seven hornbooks.
And these are authentic.
These are American or British?
British.
As I'd go into bookstores, I'd run into those things.
I found this in Chicago.
On the same day, I found a set of Huns in Special Binding, and they both cost about $100, so I had to make a choice, because I've never seen that in the other one.
I was in a bookstore on Van Buren Street in Chicago and I found this.
This Lanthorn book.
It's got stories in it by various authors.
And they're signed by the authors.
Oh, really?
Yeah.
Here's Stephen Crane.
Oh, Stephen Crane?
Oh, my God.
Now, Stephen Crane... Could you give me the title of this book again?
It's called The Lanthorn.
L-A-N-T-H-O-R-N.
And it's uncut.
I just ran into this.
The 125th.
Can I just see who published it?
It doesn't really say.
Being a small collection of tales and verses that are signed on the lantern.
But here are the authors, you see, and they're all signed...
Well, Crane.
I have to believe the Crane is pretty good.
Crane, you know, Crane, I have a little biography here.
Signed only 13 copies with all of these signatures.
Also see randoms duped them large enough, page 222.
Only, he says, 10 to 15 copies signed by Crane.
Crane was the one that didn't sign most of them.
And you have this one signed by Crane.
And that's in Dave Randall's book.
I'll check that out, yeah.
Yeah.
It's page 222.
I noted it.
So, you know, so here I'm buying unusual things.
That's okay, sir.
This is...
One of the nicest books ever published, along with the bibliography of Mosier.
The Island Voyage by Robert Louis.
This is done by the Overbrook Press.
And the Overbrook Press was about a mile from here.
Oh, that's gorgeous.
There's a lithograph.
Pochoir.
Yeah.
Is that the way you say it?
Pochoir?
Yes.
Oh, isn't that lovely?
It's a lovely book.
Look at those illustrations.
Yeah.
It's splendid.
I did that with stencils, I believe.
That is a splendid looking book.
150 copies, you know.
And who is the printer on this once again?
Overbrook, right down the road here.
Really?
Frank Altshaw, who is from the investment community.
Altshaw, the state is still there.
It's got 500 acres.
Isn't that splendid?
Look at that color.
There's a brook there, and there was a pigsty up on a hill over there, and he turned the pigsty into a press.
I bought that city auction, 1956, for $25.
Well, this rambling fail, you can see I'm gradually... No, we're getting there, and that's why I haven't diverged from the trail.
It's basically going the way I'm pleased to be.
I'm getting into other things.
I understand.
These are Moses.
Here's a book translated by... That's the Herbert Hoover book.
That's a letter from him.
That's Agricola...
in there metallica and his collection is at claremont college in california he and his wife translated that oh here is the great book collecting president by the way very rather unknown fact this is one of the bernhard wall books i have to just commend you on the splendid condition of all of your books you have to uh you have to be careful about conditions
It's like buying a piece of china.
You see a dealer, and there's a chip in it, and they say, oh, that doesn't make any difference.
But when you go to sell it, the chip cup, it makes a big difference.
I don't think, but I don't think you're moved by that.
I think you're moved by getting the best that you can get.
This was owned by a famous collector, George Spriske.
He also founds the books.
But Wall did every page...
These are etchings.
These etchings.
That's raised.
And that's signed by three people.
Oh, these... 19... Duncan Gleason.
...22.
Even the... That's what I've seen, really.
Well, there are a lot of walls around here.
That's wonderful.
Look at that.
See, he lettered it.
He started out in Lime Rock, Connecticut.
He moved to Texas, and then he moved to the Los Angeles area, where he died in an insane asylum.
Look at this.
Oh, that's wonderful.
He did nice things, didn't he?
It isn't, but it could almost be mystic, couldn't it?
I was wondering if there was a limitation in this.
Most of his findings are so poor that...
I can tell you I'll be looking for him.
I've been picking him up.
It's hard to find.
I hunted up his widow in Pasadena years ago, and I bought everything she had.
Really?
Now, whose widow again?
Because there were two names there.
Okay.
Well, anyhow, that's... What's the Libra Scripturum?
Well, it's... Oh, actually, don't pull it out.
I'll just... Well, it's... Leave it there.
It's fine.
It's gradually getting to the oddities, you know.
Here's those horn books, and this is sort of an oddity.
1804.
Look at that, huh?
Oh, this has?
This has actual wheat.
Is that what it is?
Now, I don't know if you've ever seen flowers and things mounted in books, but very seldom do you find them in this condition.
This is 175 years old.
It's more than that.
It's 1804.
1804.
It's darn close to 180.
Look at this.
Yeah.
These are grasses, right?
Various types of grasses.
Well, was this book sold like this?
Yeah.
Yeah, it was, sure.
With the specimens mounted in.
And what is the title of it again, sir?
Minutes in Agriculture and Planting.
That's the title.
Yes.
I got that from a dealer by the name of David Lowe in England.
Mm-hmm.
David Lowe and Graham Green were close friends.
And there was a book published a couple years ago called Dear David, Dear... Oh, I know the book.
Yeah.
Okay.
I know the book.
He turned up a lot of epitaph books for me, too.
Well, then I found I was buying unusual things.
Great.
I'm so pleased I came.
I think this is the first one I bought.
This started it.
Really, well, I didn't know I was collecting unusual things, but this struck me.
Why don't you just explain to me what it is.
There is a book printed on purple paper in white ink.
This started it, right?
Dante's Inferno, and I still don't know anything about this book.
Whose translation is it, you know?
Or is it in English?
No, it's in Italian.
Yeah.
I bought it because it was different.
Does it have any kind of a publisher printed on it?
No, no.
The binding looks very nice.
It's leather.
I would say it's a—what's that?
That's an octavo or a little— I would say it's maybe 1825 or something.
So I had that, and then I got the Horn books, and then I got Stephen Crane signed when—he didn't sign most of them, and then I'd run into—
books on colored paper.
That's purple and green.
Yeah.
And I'd find I'd buy a shape book.
That's a book shaped like a buffalo, huh?
Yeah, yeah.
And I'd get... Here's a book.
Why don't you tell us what that is?
Well, it's Charles ABC.
with the letters on individual cardboard pages put together, and you can fan them out.
Like a fan.
Yeah, like that.
It looks like a fan book, I guess, is what we call it.
It's a miniature book.
It's a carousel.
And what's it play?
Carousel music.
That looks like it's fairly recent.
Yes, that is.
I collect pop-up books, which I think is... Oh, really?
Yeah, I think pop-up books now, with the engineering and the computer stuff, are quite extraordinary right now.
It's a nice little... I'm a reviewer.
I'm a book critic, by the way, and I get review copies.
I'm going to put my card in just so you have it, so you know who you're talking to.
I'll give you a mic, or I'll give you a phone number and everything you want to say.
Good.
Super.
Thanks.
Hers is a book by Amelia Earhart.
Oh.
And it's inscribed.
Inscribed.
And it has a record of her voice in the rear pocket.
Oh, really?
And what's the title of this book, once again?
The Fun of It.
Random Records.
May I just get the subtitle?
Random Records of My Own Flying and of Women in Aviation.
Very good.
For a woman.
So I paid $2.50 for it.
Now it's worth $250.
It wasn't a bribe when you bought it.
It's for $2.50.
Hamelman Barker was a pair of women in Chicago.
They figure in my book, by the way.
But I'm going to be happy to give you a little rundown of what we're doing with this book, I think.
Well, anyhow...
I found... About what point are you collecting the curiosities, shall we say?
Gee, I don't know.
Here's... Isaac Walton's His Wallet Book.
And we open it... Published in London by Ledenhall Press in, I don't know, 1850... 1885.
I should get pictures of a few of these.
Go ahead, I'm just going to take a few pictures of these, because I can describe them, and I think a picture will hold me a lot more.
Well, you tell me what you want, don't I?
Just go ahead, just talk.
I'd like to actually get a picture of that.
You know, then, here's a measure.
Printed on pure vellum.
Look at this.
One of four copies on vellum, and that's what I paid.
That's worth maybe $1,000 today.
That makes you feel good, doesn't it?
Yeah.
Look at that.
Number two of four copies.
I like how you were holding it.
Did you say four copies?
Four copies.
Number two of four copies.
I'm wrong.
Here's a book.
Here, Peter Piper, this is about the alphabet.
There's the F and the G and so on, and they have it paid for the ampersand in there.
And the ampersand is printed on a sheet of sandpaper, too.
Yeah, but to me that makes it— That's a curiosity.
Yeah.
It was designed by Bruce Rogers.
The title again is Peter Piper.
So why do you think they picked a piece of sandpaper?
Because it— Well, for the Ampersand.
Ampersand.
Yeah.
Can we just get a picture of it?
Well, what are the pages in sandpaper?
Yeah.
Somebody got an idea to save space in printing.
If you did three or four of these things, I think it's the only one I've ever been able to find.
So this quoted 1977 for $450.
You got all the documentation in place, I guess.
Now let's save space in printing.
There are four different languages, and when you want to read a particular language, you use this screen.
There's French.
Funny.
That is so funny.
Who came up with an idea like that?
There's the French.
Somebody in Holland.
And if you want to read the Italian, you do it German.
I don't think my glasses could do it.
Here it is.
Unfortunately, the print is so fine.
Yeah, in Spanish.
English, French, Italian.
What is the book?
Well, it's a Euroclock.
Euroclock.
I was in Salt Lake City years ago.
I went down to a bookstore that's still there called Sam Weller's Zion Bookstore, and I found these.
Utah used to be called the, uh, Deseret, State of Deseret.
So the Mormon.
State of what?
Deseret.
So the Mormons invented an alphabet called the Deseret Alphabet, and they published four books in the Deseret Alphabet.
Look at that.
Published for the Deseret University, 1869.
Wow.
They published The Book of Mormon, The Book of Nephi, and Two Primers.
And Sam Weller found these in the basement of the temple in Salt Lake City, and look at what he sold them.
Forty-five dollars.
Yeah, but 1958.
So your collection starts in the, this particular, this departure starts in the mid-50s, is that a little right?
Yeah, I guess so.
I guess so.
But you know, I never stopped.
Here's one of the primers.
Can anybody read that language?
I don't know.
I wouldn't try.
I'm going to have to go now to History of the Mormons and just find out about this.
This is news to me.
Was this news to you when you saw it?
Yeah, I had never heard of it.
And then, you know, you find odd findings.
You know, it's found in Burlap.
It's a Roycroft Press.
Dave Lincoln and Nancy Hanks by Albert Hubbard.
They found at the Roycrofters, and they did some books.
That's gorgeous, and that's bound in Burlap.
Burlap.
It's in the best of condition, but where else do you find it?
Phonetics, Alparaiso, Indiana.
It's been done in phonetics.
It's phonetic alphabet.
What's the title of it?
That's okay.
Doctrine, D-O-K.
And practice.
K-R-I-N.
P-R-A-K-T-I-N.
And all book is in phonetics.
I've never seen that anyplace.
I found that in Chicago.
What is it?
It's doctrine and practice.
I don't know.
I've never struggled.
As I said, I don't really read them.
That's wonderful.
I don't put things back.
They separate it here.
These are books published on Birchbach I'm writing to.
I'm writing to the—he wrote to me, the president of the Miniature Book Society.
He has—he needs one.
I'm going—I'm writing to him and telling him what I had.
He can have it if he doesn't have it.
Now this—this is interesting.
This came from David Lowe in England, 1956.
exhibited at the Silk Exposition Earl Hall, Stratford, opened by the Duchess of York, March 4, 1895.
This must be on silk, of course.
Specimens of needlework from the female model school in Dublin worked in 1839.
This is a minister's card for the exhibition.
He sent it.
Now, this is a book.
because it's printed.
Oh, look at this.
Dublin.
These are samples of different types of needlework.
There's buttonholes.
Here's a cuff.
Yeah.
Pick a shirt off.
I didn't say some chrome here for the other stuff, but...
I don't know, that's probably... Isn't that great for the best?
Yeah, and then there's the patching.
There's a patch in here, there's a patch here.
Here's a gore.
And it's all put together in a little shirt, you know?
Everything is put together in this church.
One little girl.
One girl.
How do we know that?
It's in there somewhere.
One girl did that.
Well, I suppose.
Well, a whole class of girls.
Oh, a whole class.
I see.
I suppose they bought the book and then they made the samples.
That's how they graduated.
You had to tell me to do it.
I've never seen another one of those.
Then when you made that little shirt, you put it back in the box.
No, I put it back in the envelope.
No, I don't click.
This is what happens.
Things can disappear while I'm looking at them.
There will be a whole place of little girls.
I have no particular interest in music, but I can read a dealer's catalog devoted to music and find an oddity.
There's music for the blind.
Look at this.
This is pre-braille.
And here's music in Ray's notes.
And to me that's an oddity of the sort that Walter Hart Blumenthal wrote about.
Now we're getting to the Mr. Blumenthal.
There it goes, and I have a lot of other things to show you if you want to see them.
Well, I'm interested in getting to your acquisition of the Blumenthal collection, too.
Well, I don't know how I heard about, well, the book we heard about.
I bought a copy of the book, and I'm going to ask you to sign my copy of that book.
How do you like that?
Have you done that before?
Your copy is in better condition than mine.
Well, I'd probably take mine.
Yeah.
i thought about you a week ago i didn't know about you do you know that yeah i paid five dollars for this from dawson's in los angeles and we're talking price i paid from bob fleck 65 dollars yeah but i must say it's in pretty nice shape i saw that listed on a recent catalog that's like well that's the one i got well okay i just got it last week now here is the uh article uh
I don't know if you want to copy this.
We can make a zero.
I'd love to.
That would help.
Yeah, great.
Can we do that?
Do you think?
Super.
So, about the same time... Let me just put this on your desk here.
About the same time the Groyer Club... Yeah, you're a member of the Groyer Club?
Yeah.
This is before.
I've been a member of Groyer for about 20 years.
Mm-hmm.
And I'm probably their least prestigious member.
I don't know.
You're getting in my book.
They had an exhibit of what I call strange and unusual.
I went there, I spent a long time, and I copied down, and I made a list of everything they had.
And this is again about the 50s, right?
Yeah, I would think so.
I have a copy of that list someplace around.
I looked for it last night, and I couldn't find it.
Oh, I can call the grill, yeah, don't tell me.
And then along came Blumenthal's book, and I was fascinated by this, just as you were.
A book shaped like the state of Georgia in an octet in Korean.
So I contacted Blumenthal, who I have since found out was
apparently a rich man's son, and he dabbled in books, both collecting and selling.
He had a shop, I understand, up around Columbus Circle in New York.
He was a New Yorker?
Heart Bookshop, H-A-R-T.
I really don't know much about it.
Oh, you know what?
Fleck told me he's from Philadelphia, come to think of it.
Well, he lived at the, but certainly when he had the shop in New York, he was from Philadelphia.
He looked at the Drake Hotel in Philadelphia, which is just up on Rittenhouse Square, as I recall.
So I contacted him.
He was an old man then, and I proposed that he sell his collection to me.
I was brash.
I had no idea of what he had or what he'd charge.
You were charmed by the book, obviously.
So he sent me a list.
And to my surprise, there were only about 50 items on the list.
He kept them in a bank vault.
In Philadelphia?
In Philadelphia.
So I made an offer.
I have to guess about the amount, because this goes back to 1956.
So it's right after the book came out.
Yeah.
I can check the date.
I think probably I offered him about $300.
Well, you keep in mind, this was a long time ago, you know.
And he turned me down.
So about two years later, a very top dealer in Los Angeles by the name of Harry Levinson, I don't know whether he's still around or not, but he contacted me and offered me
the Blumenthal collection of blockadities for less money than Blumenthal that I had offered to Blumenthal directly.
For less than $300, then?
Yeah.
I'd say it was maybe $250.
I'm not sure.
Wow.
I could check this out.
That's one of the great bargains of all time.
So after a while, they came.
So I went through the box like a monkey looking for fleas.
And there were two books missing.
So I telephoned Levinson and said, gee, you know, there are two books missing.
Well, he said, how do you know that?
Well, I said, I have a list.
I said, you, that Blumenthal gave me.
I said, you quoted the Blumenthal collection.
And I know it was in the collection.
Oh, he said, I didn't know that.
He said, you won't have any trouble finding those.
Of course, years later, I still haven't found them.
He carry-picked, you see.
I see.
But he only left two, thank goodness.
Well, it's a book story, you know.
It's one of the things that sort of makes fun of collecting them.
It makes it fun.
Not fun of, I think.
No, no, no.
It makes fun.
It's fun to collect.
Makes it fun.
Yeah, it makes it fun.
And you end up with these little stories, like...
Norman Strauss collected Mosier.
That's how I got to know him.
And, uh, so I'm collecting Hearn.
So, uh, Ellen Schaefer, I meet her in Dawson's, where she worked, and I got Creole cookbook from her.
Now she's up at Norman Strauss.
It's a wonderful place.
My wife and I drove up there two years ago.
I went there once, and, uh,
She wasn't there when I was there, and of course, he had a stroke or something.
He's not well.
Everybody says he's not well.
But he has a collection of Moser's, and he bought, when Moser's collection was sold at auction, he bought a lot of them.
He has a lot of the vellum copies.
Moser did a few copies of everything he did on vellum, like three or four or five or six.
And Norman Strauss has a number of those I understand.
So then I started looking for odd things, meanwhile continuing other collections.
But the problem with collecting an author is that you get up to a point and then you get stuck.
Like with, for 50 years I haven't been able to finish Frank Stockton.
And the same with any author collection or any press collection.
But with book oddities, it's endless.
There's no bibliography.
There are hundreds of odd things.
And I think I'm the only one collecting book oddities.
That's great.
And so that has some advantage.
And content is quite irrelevant to the collection, too.
Yeah, yeah.
And it's endless, and yet the collection is complete at any time.
show you my collection of book oddities, you see?
And you can't say where is this or where is that?
When I talk to you about Stockton, I have to say, well, there's one item.
So it's your definition.
You basically set the rules.
It's what strikes you as odd.
I have no definition of a book oddity.
I find it very hard to explain this to dealers.
I have written hundreds of letters
And very seldom do I get a quote.
Here are oddities.
I started keeping track in 1983.
And these are, you know, here's Helkins and Matthews and Spinkinson.
Here's Barry McKay.
They're all in England.
Alma Harrison.
Here's Chloe's in Sacramento, California.
Charles Wood.
He's still around, isn't he?
Yeah, he is.
He was down in the village.
The Turn Press in England.
On and on, Shorey's in Seattle.
I've written every one of these dealers about my interest in collecting odd things.
And hardly ever do I hear from them.
Look at page after page of letters.
Each one I write individually.
So you have to find these books.
They're not about to propose something.
Yeah, and October 5th, I wrote to a guy, the Costers in Selden, Long Island, Peter Scott in Stone Ridge, New York, and John Sanderson in Stockbridge, Massachusetts.
I'm going to keep my eyes open for you now, because I do see tons of books.
They're the kind of letters I wrote.
Thank you for sending catalogs, so-and-so, fastening, erudite production.
Congratulations to whomever was the author.
As a collector of many years standing, I learns and so on, you know?
Uh-huh.
And I talk about the things I collect and book oddities.
But whoever wrote back to you and said, I don't feel much in nutty books.
Yeah.
Somebody knew that?
Yeah, nutty books.
Maybe they are nutty books.
Let me show you.
Okay.